Welcome, in this video, we're going to begin looking at branching in GitHub.
Before we actually start creating branches,
I want you to make a note that we are currently on a branch.
That is, the master branch, which you get for free when you create a new Git repository.
This is also the same default branch that you get when you create a repository on GitHub.
And, all the commits so far have been on the master branch.
So, let's create a new branch. There are several ways to create new branches,
and to have them associated with your repository in GitHub.
One way, and probably one of the easiest ways, is to go to our branch dropdown
directly on the main page for your Git repository.
Just click the down indicator, and you'll notice that we are currently on
the master branch, because we have a check mark next to it.
Wherever you have the checkmark is the starting point for any branches that we create.
In this field that we have above the listing of branches,
is a combination search field and create branch field.
If you type something in that matches an existing branch,
then it will find that branch, and switch to it;
however, if it does not find a match, GitHub assumes that you want to create the branch.
So, when you press enter, it will create that branch.
So, let's do that now; I'm going to create a branch called "example".
Since we don't have any branches named example,
GitHub will assume that we want to create a branch, which we do.
It also indicates that we will be creating this example branch directly off of master.
Alright, so let's press enter; that automatically creates and switches to the example branch.
Also, GitHub provides a nice little banner at the top,
telling us that we just created a branch. Any edits we make at this point
will be separate and diverge from the master branch.
However, since we have not made any commits yet,
this branch is currently even with master, which is where we branched off of.
Let's make a quick edit to see things in action.
Let's edit the "README.md" file; click on edit this file.
Make any changes you want to it,
and now we're going to scroll down and commit our changes.
Once you've typed in a commit message, click on "Commit changes".
Great, let's return to the main page for this repository.
Clicking on the main page for this repository reset us back
to the default branch for this repository, which is master.
To get back to that example branch, you can drop down and click on example.
Now, that switches us to the example branch. Once we do that, you can see that we have
our latest commit, which is "Updating readme from branch example".
If you notice the tab for branches, it tells us we now have two branches.
If we click on branches, we have our default branch
and that, our branches, we have example.
That's just an overview, and it just segregates out
all the other branches besides our default branch.
We can use our browser's back button to go back a step,
or, once on the branches tab, we can just click on the name of the branch we want to go to.